We'll come back up until this point we've talked about sorting algorithms that weren't very efficient
and aren't that commonly used now insertion sort is not the most efficient algorithm either but there's
cases where it's actually extremely fast which we're going to talk about.
So pay attention because this one starts to get important.
You see insertion sort is useful for times when you're pretty sure their list is almost sorted.
Or it's already sorted.
Which sounds silly but sometimes this is important in computer science and in a best case scenario.
You can get all of and or linear time when the list is almost sorted.
Let's see how it works.
We have a list and we look at six.
We look at the first sign and just leave it where it is.
We now look at the next item 5 and because five is less than six we switch it over and then we go next
into the list we say hey 3 where are you in relation to five and six ball.
It's less than those two.
So we shift those over and three gets placed in the front.
So we now have this list of 3 5 6.
We look at one and say oh yeah that's the first item we want to shift everything one to the left.
We then look at eight.
Well eight is larger than all those items so let's just attach it to the end of our list.
Seven ball goes between six and eight.
So place it in there to between 1 and 3 place it in there and 4 place between 5 or 3 and 5
and that's it.
This is probably the way that your brain works if you physically had Lego blocks with these numbers
and you would move things around and this type of sorting.
Performs really really well when it comes to small data sets which we'll get into later on with our
exit sizes.
But can you do this type of sorting in code see if he can implement your own insertion sort.
Same thing as before.
This time we have the insertion sort algorithm based on the video and the YouTube dancers the link to
it.
Can you implement your own insertion algorithm in the next video.
I'll show you the answer.